---
title: Fake News
author: Brett Petch
date: 2020-02-16 09:30:00
layout: category-post
category: 
    - lecture
    - week-8
---

# Today
- Pop Quiz
- Midterm feedback
- Facebook and Twitter: PRivacy and Publicity
- Surveillance: Political, Corperate, Educational
- Advertising distorting the public sphere: bot,s analytic bubbles and fake news

I will also remind you that the content will be fair game for the final exam. That is a possible thing to be tested on.

The class average was at ~70% with a spread from 51-82. No one failed. Generally speaking, there were a few problems with multiple choice. Couldn't figure out where the problem wa.s I think it was just unfamiliarity with general course material. People who did come to class did better than those who did not. Most of the issues in the essay were not using the concepts / course materials. If you were doing a question about a reading, you should have been doing things in context. The point of doing a midterm / final is that you did come to class and did the reading. Ensure you do the such and such of the so and so. The marks are porportionate to the section. The numbers squiggled on teh side are 20, 15, 15, 50. This doesn't mean you had to say 15 things for 1 term, it was 4-5 tops. If something doesn't add up, let me know and i'll try to brush up on my math.

Any queestions about the midterm?
- Final: Bring in a dictionary? Lower expectations for final exam. 
- Is the final cumulative? Somewhat, it will be 3 essay questions or 2 essay questions and a bunch of multiple choice. Multiple choice + 2 essays, or 3 essays. There will be a cumulative element, however it will be based on the 2nd half of the course. If you want, come to office hours if you'd like to go over everything.

## Facebook
One of the interesting trends I saw was that alot of you signed up on Facebook then left the platform. It's something interesting to see what the early adoption. 

### Small history: 
Started by Harvard undergrads in 2004. It was being bankrolled by venture capitalists, expanded to other universities. The idea that it was a scrappy startup was really being founded by a PayPal founder, and the idea is misleading. When Facebook started up, it was originally exclusive to university students, then General Public access was opened in 2006. The business model became advertising platform.

### Michel Foucault (1926-1984)
Concerned with power relations, typically associated with Barthes, Maccon. Studies power, biopolitics, etc. Today, we're interested in *Discipline and Punish*. Anyone know why it's translated as discipline? any guess? The idea of surveillance is a discipline? possibly that it tries to change the human condition? 
- French philosopher and literary critic
- concerned with postmodern unsderstanding of power relations in society.
- Discipline and punish uses idea of panopticon to explain state surveillance as control method in prisons, schools, etc.

#### Surveillance and Privacy
Foucault is interested in surveillance and power, Fuchs looks at a "negative" theory of surveillance. Fuchs identifies different notions of privacy
- Restricted Access Theory: Only information that you give out.

#### Political Surveillance: Edward Snowden
Edward Snowden was a CIA / NSA contractor who leaked the details of mass surveillance programs against US citizens. He fled Hawaii to Russia via Hong Kong; USA continues to demand his prosecution. State survillance also corporate, as data subcontractors very profitable (Fuchs).

#### Polticial Surveillance: Cambridge analytica
British firm Cambridge Analytica revealed to skim 87 million Facebook users' information without consent and sold the data to political campaigns. Facebook stock dropped after 2018. Zuckerberg testified before congress, promised reform, scandals continue. Generally speaking, nothing has improved to the point where the problem has become solved. There are also more direct ways that Social Media Networks can surveil the state. If you travel internationally, doing research on poltically sensitive topics, etc. Additionally, poltiical surveillance of online data goes beyond big data, eg: checking phones, etc.

#### Economic / Consumer Surveillance
Predictive analytics, which is essentially aggregating consumer spending patterns in order to predict habits and purchasing patterns. Stores predict personal info based on shopping history. Subject of high-profile data breaches, snitching apps on FB, etc. Eg. Amazon predictive shipping, etc. Facebook and other SMS must monitor for illegal / explicit material. This work is typically subcontracted to firms that pay far less than Facebook. Moderators micromanage, suffer from PTSD, have destructive coping behaviour.

#### Educational Surveillance: OWL & Turnitin
Lines between types of surveilance further blurred in education. OWL provides surveillance tools for instructors. Turnitin combs database of student essays. Your coursework commodified and tuition increased for private profits.

```break```