---
title: 
author: Brett Petch
date: 2020-01-29 09:30:00
layout: category-post
category: 
    - lecture
    - week-5
---

## Ideology
It's quite useful in how te talk about how a medium can have an ideology. This is something that Fuchs can get into. He talks about ideology without setting it up as much as I'd like. Althusser says "A representation of the imaginary relationship of individuals to their real conditions of existence" (Louis Althusser)

## Google
PhD Students Sergey brin & Larry Page develop search engine
search based on secret pagerank algorithm, web relevance.

### Ideology of Google
Fuchs critiques. When they started out, Google has the early company motto of
> Don't be evil

This has slowly hidden away. Google itself turned into one of these massive corporations and created its own burocracy. Tried to get investors to buy into this "new kind of company". Another ideological function is that ads are fine as long as they're relevant. Better to have ads that know what you want already. If you opt out, they're no longer tied to your search history.

Tax avoidance is fine since it's legal.

## Stadia
Not owning anything

## Gender in Tech Culture
IDea is how women's work is on the consumer side. She talks about the booth babes that are used as CES, E3, etc. Good looking women to stand by the product to get men to buy products at the show. 

### Google
Marissa Mayer: mebodied gender contradictions in tech. Built nursery beside her Yahoo! office as employees banned from working at home.

2017: Engineer argued that diversity hires, balanced gender makeup was wrongheaded... internal memo. Leaked, fired.
2018: Walkouts over sexism and inequality.

## Group Presentations
10% preparation, 30% content, 20% delivery, 20% Discussion, 20% peer evaluation.
Hand in copies of slides/handouts, bibliography, and peer evaluation sheets.

### Crafting a Research Presentation
Find a way to narrow down. Ask research questions and come to conclusions. The first thing to do is start at the [Library Website](https://lib.uwo.ca/). Depending on what particular approach you may want to take, there is some links under research guides... New database may not be helpful to this particular class. Searching using Google may return not-well vetted results. Once you've found some stuff, once you've done general reading, etc. on topic you need to narrow down to a research question. It may be conceptual or practical. Find evidence on how to solve a particular problem. You can obviously go and talk to librarians at the library; it is their job. Let's think of a random topic: crowdfunding. 

Changing Kickstarter to fund video game development. If we look at a more specific thing, we can consider how a SPECIFIC crowd-funding platform can be used for the focus of game development. So when we have this more focused topic, we can brainstorm ideas in the history of this, how long has crowdfunding been a thing, how does it function in larger systems, how are the traditional ways working out? is it kind of categorized in one way or another? is it used only for certain applications, counterfactuals, etc. If there was no crowd funding would game x be better? What is some of the previous work that has been done on this topic? Is some of this information in your research challenging another study, or is it more of a question... For instance, you can throw out questions that are settled fact, speculative, or dead ends.

## Wrapping up
- Google's ideology and benevolence belied by reliance on capital accumulation, working practices, offshoring profits, etc.
- Immaterial labour of "Googlers" still relies on the material labour of overseas maufacutring, miningm etc.
- Domestic labour also become an outsourced externality
- In Google and the other parts of the tech sector, women inordinentally.... 
- Next Week: MIDTERM.